.\" x-roff document
.do mso man.tmac
.TH NOTESRC 5 2021-01-22 NDC
.SH NAME
notesrc - NDC's notes configuration file.
.PP
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fInotes\fP uses a directory and its subdirectories to store the user's notes in files. See ‘\f[CR]notebook\fP’ bellow. The files can be plain text, markdown or anything else that can configured by \fIrule\fP statements in the configuration file.
.PP
During startup \fInotes\fP reads the configuration file ‘\f[CR]$XDG\_CONFIG\_HOME/notes/noterc\fP’ or ‘\f[CR]~/.config/notes/noterc\fP’ or ‘\f[CR]~/.notesrc\fP’; whichever is encountered first.
.PP
.SH VARIABLES
.PP
.TP
\fBnotebook = <directory>
\fRThe directory where the files are located. If the directory is not specified then, if \fI~/Nextcloud/Notes\fP found, it will be used, otherwise the \fI~/.notes\fP will be used.
.PP
.TP
\fBbackupdir = <directory>
\fRThe \fInotes\fP stores backup files of the notes before edited or deleted. If \fIbackupdir\fP is omitted then environment variable \fI$BACKUPDIR\fP will be used if set; otherwise no backup will be used.
.PP
.TP
\fBdeftype = <extension>
\fRThis is the default extension file name when the user does not specify one in a new note - name.
.PP
.RS
.EX
deftype=txt
.EE
.RE
.TP
\fBonstart = <command-line>
\fRCommand to execute at startup of TUI or by option ‘\f[CR]--onstart\fP’.
.PP
.TP
\fBonexit = <command-line>
\fRCommand to execute at exit of TUI or by option ‘\f[CR]--onexit\fP’.
.PP
.TP
\fBclobber = <boolean>
\fRProtection of unintentionally overwrite (same as shell). Default is true.
.PP
.SH STATEMENTS
The variable ‘\f[CR]%f\fP’ contains the list of relative path names of selected notes or the current one. Use ‘\f[CR]%%\fP’ to get a single percent sign. Also, the application pass this list to environment variable \fI$NOTESFILES\fP and the working directory to \fI$NOTESDIR\fP. The working directory is always the \fI$NOTESDIR\fP and files are relative to this.
.PP
.TP
\fBrule *action* *pattern* *command*
\fR\fIRules\fP defines how the program will act of each file type. There are two \fIactions\fP for now,\fIview\fP and \fIedit\fP.
.PP
.RS
.EX
rule view *.[0-9] man %f
rule view *.man   man %f
rule view *.md    bat %f
rule view *.txt   less %f
rule view *.pdf   zathura %f
rule edit *       $EDITOR %f
.EE
.RE
.TP
\fBexclude *pattern* [*pattern* ...]
\fRFile match patterns of files and/or directories to ignore.
.PP
.RS
.EX
exclude .git trash *.sqlite
.EE
.RE
.TP
\fBumenu *label* ; *command*
\fRSpecifies user-defined menu item to deal with current or tagged files. The command will get the full path files as parameters. Use the 'm' key to invoke the user-defined menu.
.PP
.RS
.EX
umenu print the files ; echo %f
umenu print the contents ; cat %f
umenu copy to clipbard ; xclip -i %f
.EE
.RE
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright © 2020-2021 Nicholas Christopoulos.
.PP
License GPLv3+: GNU GPL version 3 or later <http://gnu.org/licenses/gpl.html>. This is free software: you are free to change and redistribute it. There is NO WARRANTY, to the extent permitted by law.
.PP
.SH AUTHOR
Written by Nicholas Christopoulos <mailto:nereus@freemail.gr>.
.PP
.SH SEE ALSO
\fBnotes\fP(1)
.PP
